[music] Good morning. It's 9:00 a.m.
here in Hong Kong, in Shanghai, and in
Shenzhen. You're watching the China
Show. Our final full broadcast of the
year. We're coming down to the opening
markets in greater China. Let's get to
your top stories today. Stocks across
the region up after tech [music] gains
pushing Wall Street to yet another
record. FX markets in focus with the
yuan [music] at its strongest level in
over 14 months. 7 is very much in focus.
and also in South Korea warning [music]
against excessive weakness in their
currency. Gold soaring above $4,500
[music] an ounce for the very first time
on escalating tensions in Venezuela and
also bets on more Fed rate cuts in
[music] 2026.
Also ahead, Washington holding off on
new tariffs on Chinese chips even after
accusing Beijing of unfair trade
practices. Plus, we take a [music]
closer look at the challenges facing
Chinese battery maker CL as the company
seeks new markets overseas.
Welcome [music] to the program. Hope
you're all well. Lots to get through
over the next two hours or so. Let's get
started with what's really been a fairly
consistent story almost all year round
with the exception of a few wobbles as
we can see the rally across risk assets
right Asia Pacific 227 right now on the
benchmark 310 to 1% as you can see the
tech the tech subgauge is leading that
one Cosby there's a separate
conversation we'll get to that in a
moment as far as the currency goes some
strong language coming through out of
authorities there leading to some
strength coming through in their
currency Taiwan is coming online within
that market. It's not just tech. We're
looking at insurers to given this rule
change in FX. More on that as well later
on. We talked about the one winning
today. Dollar one down. As you can see,
we're up 1% stronger on 1% on the Korean
currency. 1.4 rather 156 now on dollar
yen. uh the markets they're warning of
strong determination as it pertains to
maybe these FX moves in the market might
have reached uh maybe a tattered to a
level a notch or two uh beyond what is
comfortable question mark right uh the
big story as well in markets is when you
have copper 12,000 we took that out
yesterday 400 in gold also a nice round
number on platinum we're up about 3%
there and silver of course 150%
year to date we took out 70 yesterday.
It looks like 72 is very very close uh
if not already on some contracts. Uh
very quickly the approach to the Chinese
market open. So we talked about copper
coming up on your screens as well. Uh
and the CH dollars China is 7017
and the reason that's important if that
puts us about.26%
27%. I'm just doing some rough math in
my head which roughly translates to
about that's about a one standard
deviation move. uh historical that's
daily. If we get that which is rare of
course statistically that would take us
below seven suffice to say it's possible
but unlikely and we are looking at
weakness going into uh the open today
and of course just a a public service
reminder that several markets in the
region are um operating on truncated
sessions today. Hong Kong, Singapore,
Australia and also in New Zealand. Okay.
Um, let's have a look at the agenda
today
and Oh, okay. Is this the agenda today?
Well, it's partly it. So, the China X
rally uh we had a fix. It's an early
close in Hong Kong, but yeah. Okay.
Well, we we'll we'll talk about this
later. Okay. Let's talk about uh the
chip curbs, right? The US is holding off
a new chip uh Chinese chip tariffs until
mid. We'll fix that for you is what I'm
trying to say. Uh that's despite
accusing Beijing of engaging in unfair
trade practices in the chip sector.
Let's bring in Min Miller, our China
correspondent here with us on set to
tell us more about this investigation.
It's it's it it something that didn't
happen overnight. It was months long.
What are the findings and what it what
it might mean for for policy moving
forward?
>> Yeah. So it's nearly a year in the
making. It was launched in the final few
weeks of the for former US President Joe
Biden's administration and it was
expected that President Trump would
resolve this. But the findings from the
US trade representative office is that
China has used aggressively and
sweepingly used non-market policies to
create foreign dependence on its
products in a way that was not
advantageous for US commerce. So the
decision is not to impose any tariffs in
the next 16 months. But starting from
June 2027, they will impose tariffs, but
the rates are only going to be announced
at least a month before. So this is a
clear signal that President Trump is in
some ways trying to stabilize ties here
and keep to that trade truce that he
agreed with President Xi when they met
in South Korea. But at the same time
also creating that opening right to
revisit this one and a half years later
uh and potentially a bargaining chip
when China and US has to renegotiate the
extension of the trade truce.
>> Already we're not even at 2026. You're
taking us into mid 2027. Uh men what was
China's response to this? So the US the
Chinese embassy in the US has responded
and obviously hit back at this saying
that you know it's they're opposed to
this uh and also saying that they will
take whatever necessary measures to
protect their legitimate rights and
interests and you can see here the
statement they said to instrumentalize
and weaponize trade and tech issues and
destabilize global industrial supply
chains will benefit no one and will
eventually backfire. Now this comes as
China also hit back against the new US
rules to ban foreign drones and drone
parts and also saying that that the US
is bullying Chinese companies saying
that China reserves the right to protect
or safeguard Chinese interests and also
calling on the US to withdraw those
rules.
>> All right, Midman, thank you so much. Uh
Minman Law, our China correspondent
there. Uh our other top story, all the
data that came through overnight uh in
the US obviously the headline was GDP.
Within that you had several things like
so the 2-year yield for example spiking
a little bit not a lot of material
pricing changes around the Fed you have
consumer confidence numbers separately
also showing uh maybe the opposite but
maybe the same right it's a it's it's a
multi- uh multiaceted coin uh
consumption and exports driving US
growth on your screens GDP of course
coming in north of 4%
um quite a substantial beat looking at
where the estimates were uh to just help
us understand the context here. Jill
Dies, our managing editor is with us
here on set. Uh good set of numbers,
good growth.
>> Yeah, I mean look, I think you know,
you're looking at um GDP growing at the
fastest pace in two years uh in the
third quarter. So obviously some pretty
robust figures there. But what you're
really looking at here, David, is that
the economy did seem to continue to
build some momentum and that's um after
some of the most severe of the Trump
tariffs were actually lifted. So there
was a little bit of a reprieve there. Um
not really a ton of impact. um you know
sort of you're seeing from some you know
some of um you know some other some
other political issues. I think you know
what we're likely to look at is sort of
that continued sort of um strength as we
as you start to head into 2026. Um I
think the consumer confidence divergence
though is quite interesting. maybe tells
you a little bit David about how uh the
way that people actually spend because
you know part of the strength in these
GDP figures was really because um there
was more consumer spending but like you
know maybe there's a divergence there in
how people are actually spending versus
how they feel about the economy. I mean
certainly you know some concerns there
in those consumer confidence numbers
about um you know the labor market going
into 2026 tariffs that kind of thing but
at least you know that's not showing up
in that spending figures just yet. So
tells you a little bit there.
>> Yeah just some breaking news right now.
So, a judge has upheld the White House's
100,000
fee on H-1B visas, of course, which is a
story of course that made a lot of waves
globally when it was first introduced
out of the White House that seems to be
that will remain the case uh moving
forward. Jill Ar, you want to comment on
this or should we talk about the
weakness in the K-shaped recovery and
how that what it means for the Fed? It's
it's it's your choice.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think we could probably
move on to the Fed as we kind of start
to digest, you know, exactly um you
know, where this kind of goes in terms
of the the court decisions here for this
visa um rule. But when we're talking
about the Fed here, I think um some
really interesting comments. Obviously,
we're all kind of um you know, on tent
waiting for Trump to actually announce
whoever his Fed chair uh nominee is
going to be. Um you've got really the
latest comments from Trump. I think
we're, you know, um, very very, you
know, in line with what we've, um, you
know, come to expect from him.
Essentially saying that no matter, you
know, what the economy is doing,
essentially he wants, um, whoever his
Fed chair pick is to really really rally
for cutting rates. obviously like you
know I think some uh divergence there
with um you know some market
fundamentals certainly over the last
like several decades.
>> It's not that bad the economy
>> but um I think that um you know what
we're really hearing from Trump is just
that he is so adamant about wanting to
have somebody in that position who is
going to do what Trump wants him to do,
right? Like I think you you you've got
he he wants lower interest rates uh and
he wants to install somebody that's
actually going to tackle that. Of
course, David, I mean, we've talked um I
don't even know how many times about uh
the fact that you know, it's obviously
not just the Fed chair himself that um
you know, makes those types of
decisions. You know, you have to rally
the rest of the FOMC around you to you
know, sort of bring something forward,
but it does indicate obviously, you
know, Trump is is really really really
wants a Federal Reserve that's
essentially going to do what he wants.
Does he get that in 2026? I think we'll
have to see.
>> It is it is just one vote to the point
you're making. Right. So, just looking
at the dots, too. Uh thank you so much,
Jill. Fantastic. Jill D is there a
managing editor. Now we might not even
need to crowbar in lower rates right
because there there is a case to be made
for lower rates. In fact um post these
numbers that have that did come out of
course on consumer confidence
specifically our team at Bloomberg
economics. Let me just paraphrase this
and shortly quite simply is that because
of the consumer confidence numbers and
the weaker side of things there a
function of labor market health which is
important to the Fed at this point in
time given the mandates plural they do
expect more rate cuts and easing in
2026. Right. Speaking of 2026, a market
outlook for next year with VS Partners
coming up [music] here and why they
think Chinese markets are just starting
to win over some long only [music]
investors. That's coming up. Counting
down to the open of trade, Shanghai
Shanghai
show. Good morning.
Good morning. 17 minutes [music] to the
opening bell. Again, a reminder that uh
it's a shortened session here.
>> Oh. Uh in Hong Kong today, I think we're
shut at lunch. And then, of course, that
allows us to ease our way into the
stillness of Christmas Eve. Well, I
guess depending what your plans are.
Certainly, in my end, it's going to be
it's going to be quiet. Uh copper uh on
your screens. Of course I will talk more
about the commodities rally but
certainly when you look at the commodity
complex and the overlay on equity
markets resourceheavy markets did also
do very very well this year right so
whether that's precious metals you have
copper that's an AI power play um as it
pertains to the AI obviously has been
doing been doing very well we're called
lower right now across these benchmarks
Asia Pacific is up 310 of 1% this 24th
of December uh to get an outlook for
next year Vanessa Shu is here with us on
set co-founder and CIO O at VS Partners
Hong Kong. Good morning. Very nice to
see you.
>> Very nice to see you again and a merry
Christmas.
>> Yes. Hajjo. Okay. The this year has
really been dollar weakness. Stocks have
done well. EM EM has done well. Do you
think EM's still have room to rally with
against the backdrop of just things are
no longer as cheap as they were at the
start of the year broadly? Well, I think
at the EM um good performance will
continue um because of the fundamentals
driving earnings expansions and driving
um credit expansions.
Um when dollar is into a easing cycle
regardless of uh you know how much and
how fast that fat uh cuts will provide a
liquidity support and the DM market
particularly US economy is healthy some
um cyclical slowdown. So that provides
the demand support for the EM market
>> and um you know there is a difference of
this growth cycle which is it is the DM
particularly the US that has undergone
massive uh uh expansion on
infrastructure constructions of uh you
know manufacturing sites data centers
and ma um and expansion on industrial
assets and the rebuild u capital
formation right so that's going to have
um you know demand effect on the EM uh
supplies. Um so export are going to stay
healthy which you know the y supply uh
from industrial um will turn that into
consumer spending power growth wage
growth um you know middle income uh
households um uh
wallet um growing right so that's going
to provide a fundamental healthy support
for em um
>> what if the what if the fed doesn't cut
anymore what if what if they've ended it
>> even if the Fed doesn't cut I think you
know at the we we have passed the peak
rates perhaps right okay
>> and uh uh inflation um expectation has
been uh so far well anchored
>> um even if the fat doesn't cut um the US
uh fiscal expansion is there and the
liquidity um is um changing from you
know monetary liquidity that flows into
the financial markets to fiscal
liquidity that flows into the real uh uh
real industries to the main street
rather than Wall Street. Right? So, Wall
Street is a
>> uh asset price um inflation and re u
main street is a real economy expansion
which is going to support demand. But I
think also uh the DM has survived the
peak rates, right? Balance sheet has uh
been improving, profitability has been
solid and the uh cash flow has been um
solid after uh corporates has survived
of the of the of the peak rate. I
remember two or three years ago we were
worried about the debt refinancing wars
that the corporates couldn't survive the
postcoid of and you have the we had the
peak rates
>> so um that and and and bankruptcy did
not uh pick up.
>> Yeah. and uh corporates from our
fundamental research has uh uh survived
that uh uh cash flow and pro
profitability blow. Okay.
>> So that's going to support the EM
demand. So for example, you know, India
is perhaps lagging uh in the you know,
EM with the size but fundamentally I
think India will be picking up in terms
of uh less uh restrictive regulatory um
environment more liquidity because the
central bank has cut and the solid uh
households uh uh consumption growth
>> but but India just to play the devil's
advocate has underperformed this year
because it neither has a strong AI
component in the market nor does it have
nor is it a very resourceheavy
index for example. Right. Yeah. Right.
So what's the case for India?
>> The the the two prominent uh sectors
performed very well that India is
relatively uh uh weaker but
fundamentally India is uh at the credit
expansion cycle is at infrastructure
building cycle. The housing market which
in any economy housing market would is a
pillar for the uh for the economy. After
10 years of uh uh down cycle, India's
housing market is booming. Therefore, it
will have a you know impact on
consumption, impact on uh construction,
impact on uh you know uh durable goods
such as cars and appliances etc. Right?
So um the fundamental has been there. I
think MSEI India's uh earnings growth
has been revised up and the financial
sector uh industrial sector and um has
been uh doing very well. So um maybe
next year I think India is a is a is a
worse look on the relative value basis
particularly given the other EM market
has gone up pretty pretty much.
>> Can I ask you about China?
>> Sure. There's a big swing in attitude
from this uninvestable tag to certainly
a lot of long investors have not only
increased allocations, they've asked
>> they've at least explicitly talked about
wanting to also increase their
allocations even further. There's still
question marks.
>> Yes.
>> I think the point you made and I think
the point you're making is China does
not have to be in a bull market. It just
doesn't need
>> We just don't want to be in a bare
market. As things stand, do you see more
allocations going into China next year
even if the macro stays the same?
>> Well, you mentioned wanting but wanting
and doing there is a gap, right? So when
the mind begin to change, it takes time
particularly for large very fundamental
long money, right? to um realize perhaps
the risk allocation was too bearish and
too little uh for China to actually at
you know IC or CIO office level to
change the risk allocation and uh take
actions of that takes time. So I think
uh China rebounded since uh September 24
last year. So it's uh slightly more than
a year and uh that um and the uh export
uh industrial compound remained uh
remained healthy although domestic
economy still have some headwinds. So it
has uh triggered the people to deeply
rethink about geoeconomics rethink about
uh how to look at the China's
fundamentals and and uh that takes time.
I think as long as next year it is not a
bare market even if it doesn't uh the
market doesn't go up as much it will
have a um uh people will um allocate to
China more particularly in the broader
context as we mentioned EM still this is
the largest EM um component and for
sizable capital to deploy to EM uh China
has to be a um you know must go
>> is it a beta play next year you think is
it a benchmark play China
>> I think it's a it's a alpha play right
so look at the economy there is a
bifocation um advanced industrials
cheapmakings semiconductor related value
chains are doing very well it will
continue to do well and we see a very
healthy and strong high quality
pipelines of IPOs coming to Hong Kong or
domestic market for the ma for that
matter but on the other side consumption
remain still um you know a little bit
weak
um and um u
real estate continue to have dragging
effect on the traditional economies. So
it's a it it's a um alpha market that
for stock pickers
>> and it's a it's a play mainly in Hong
Kong because Hong Kong has had to your
point massive IPOs this year. It's been
a very very good year and I think you
think the world underappreciates the
fact that the market structure in Hong
Kong is changing.
>> Correct. and the market structure
changing meaning that you know Hong Kong
used to be perceived as you know massive
stateowned companies traditional banks
and uh and and and insuranceances and
Hong Kong is uh lacking innovation and
the innovation goes to starboard in in
in Shenzhen but now look at Hong Kong it
has a very well-rounded
uh industry uh combination of the new
issuances and the reissuances um so you
can find leadership almost across border
of all industries. So the uh innovation
force is driving the Hong Kong IPO
market and the world has not realized
that. I give it another year or two. The
world will realize that very strongly
that Hong Kong market structure has
fundamentally changed.
>> Okay. Yeah, we were out of time. We
didn't get to talk about private credit
alternatives and fixed income. No doubt
we'll have more time for that next year.
Vanessa, very nice to see you.
>> Very nice to see you too. Merry
Christmas.
>> Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Hi to
the team for us as well. Vanessa Shu
there, co-founder and CIO at VS Partners
here uh in Hong Kong. We are flat on the
Hangen at the open. A50 futures are down
about [music] a quarter of 1%. Plenty
more aheads. A preview of the session.
This is the China show. Good morning.
Right, welcome back. Uh going into the
open today. So the seven level on the
currency were close. Uh it'll need to be
a fairly statistical aberration
day to take us below seven uh on dollar
China. We'll talk about CEO and MGM
China in a moment. Um talked at length
already about precious metals. Uh
there's a 7-year bond sale. I think it's
88 billion rem today and of course early
close. So we open at 9 and then I think
we shut at 12. So three hours for today.
All that is to say it doesn't even
matter if the market is open, right?
Because investors have largely checked
out. So we talked about falling V and
turnover 15-day moving average uh on the
Hanging Index turnover charts coming up
on your screens. Green circle well
Christmas theme, right? Green circle is
the was the peak this year. That's the
deepseek moment from that low and red is
where we are and we're at the lowest
level at going back to about the start
of the deepseek moment. Right? We've
almost come full circle on turnover, but
again on price itself, we are we're
certainly holding up near the higher end
of this year's range in Hangen index. In
fact, just on a very note, have a look
at where we are here. [music] Uh 26,000,
let's call it that. Hanging tech on your
screens, Dollar Ten, China. So, we're
slightly
and I'm being generous clearly going
into the the open today. The opening
bell coming up next 3 minutes away. This
is the China Show. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Right. each and every day.
Well, not each and every day, let's call
it more more [music] often than not, you
know, I I get reminders of how blessed I
am to be covering a a region as diverse
as the [music] Asia-Pacific. You know,
while we were looking at Japan for
potential intervention, we were looking
at China [music] for a potential break
of seven. What happened was the Koreans
came out and gave us those conversations
to have separately. Uh but [music] yes,
that is just to say of course lots of
stories to get into as we wrap up. Even
a very very quiet session in the equity
markets. There's a [music] massive move
down uh in dollar one today. We were I
think 1.3 1.4%
uh to the downside there uh on dollar
one. Okay. Uh that is also to say that
it has been a outside of that it's been
a it's been a weak dollar story going
into that one story this morning.
Dollars weaker a third day you had to
fix you know at 701. And I've talked
about this in case you missed that.
That's about a one sigma move away on a
daily basis that takes us below seven.
There doesn't seem to be anything on the
agenda clearly. We don't know what we
don't know, but doesn't seem to be
anything that is visible that might act
as a catalyst for a one sigma move down
in dollar China today. As you look at
the bond yields and as we change the
page, just a reminder that uh we have a
7-year CGB auction today. Keep an eye on
that. 88 billion being on offer. uh 10
to 1% to the upside, just 200 short of
the 2600 level uh on the Hangen index.
It's quite as far as sector news.
There's chips and of course there's
drones which you know I think we can get
to uh later on as far as the movers go.
Obviously precious metals that's a
separate but related story is up 310 of
1%. Another uh oil discovery in the
Bohigh Sea. Uh not much reaction in the
market today. Uh one debut coming
through Ningbo Jansen on your screens.
were up 200 plus%.
Uh beyond that, I can't tell you more
really. It's a first day of trade, so
let's split the page, please. But
suffice to say, it's another good day,
good trading debut there. Uh chip stocks
in focus. There we go. SMIC up 4.3. Huah
Hong is up about 4%. This has been a
fairly consistent move, by the way,
since the more threads unveiling
uh of their new product on the weekend.
Now, we talked about gold, right? 4,500
on spot. Silver's up 7172.
Um, so gold's up what 70%, silver's up
by double. Uh, Jansy copper 1.4%.
Putting everything together as far as
the, you know, the copper story is
concerned. 12% 12,000 uh copper. There
we go. Thank you. 121. And of course,
also I think we're at 90,000 uh on a
Shanghai contract. Let's bring in our
Cross Assets reporter, Richard
Henderson. He's in Melbourne for us
today. Richard, good morning, sir. Thank
you for coming on the show.
uh cross asset has been a very busy uh
busy area this year. Take your pick.
Where do we start going into next year?
What's top of mind for you, sir?
>> I think stocks is a great place to
start. You know, the Msei Asia Pacific
Index is up 27%
uh for the year so far when you include
dividends. Uh and part of it is a dollar
story. you know, a weakening dollar does
uh flatter some of those returns, but I
think underlying that is a great
technology story and it really um is
easy to point to deepsek at the start of
the year uh that showed investors and it
comes up all the time when I'm talking
to chief investment officers and
portfolio managers in the region. It
really underscored the type of
possibilities and talent that's on offer
in China, but also in places like South
Korea, Taiwan, Japan, uh where from a
hardware and software point of view,
it's so tightly integrated into the
global technology supply chain and often
at a far greater uh more attractive
valuation uh let's say than the United
States and and we see those persistent
concerns around um the MAG7 uh valuation
story for instance. So, I think going
into 2026, we're going to see investors
really like to to build out their tech
exposure in Asia to build on some of
those gains and um to potentially try
and surf up the AI theme at a cheaper
price point basically.
>> Yeah, you just got to you don't need to
look across asset, just look across the
Pacific. um any any concerns over
valuations you know after you know after
a year and let's take Korea obviously is
an very extreme example because I think
that is the best performing index and a
lot of that has to do with SKH Heinix
and Samsung beneath the hood after a
year that after a year like Korea's had
are there concerns over market
concentration or valuations within that
space just to maybe just close the door
on that on that one
>> definitely yeah those concerns are going
to be uh very key to the to the you know
to the investment thesis for those
single names and and for the index but I
think we're not really seeing the same
levels as we're seeing in the US where
you know the mag 7 is
>> some 33% of the S&P 500 now you know
that that makes the you know the index
so vulnerable to such few companies um
there's also great earnings underpinning
some of these suppliers in Asia so um so
I think given that attractiveness of
valuation relative to the US and other
global peers uh inst investors will
still see a lot of value through um
through Asia Tech. Uh so I expect that
to continue into the new year.
>> Okay. What about credit sir? What's top
of mind going into next year? Credit.
>> Credit. Yeah. Investment grade dollar
credit in Asia is heading for its best
year since 2019. Uh it's outperformed
the US. It's a great great year for Asia
credit. And part of this is um you know
not not a huge glutz of supply and also
pretty um pretty attractive on the
defaults you know very low defaults. So
you know when we talk to portfolio
managers they really like Asia credit at
that um at that investment grade level
but also high yields had a great uh had
a great year relative to the US. I think
it's you know best year in seven u from
memory. So um so yeah, Asia credit still
very attractive and again it's um you
know it's it's partly reflecting um the
the relative attractiveness to to its
global peers but I think another uh
another strong year for credit uh
potentially in 2026
>> the it's it's quiet on equity markets
and FX though the the news flow keeps
keeps giving and I think that you know
the Koreans we talked about this and I'm
not sure if you heard what happened
there of course the bank of Korea just
now talking about how the NPS was
activating new strategic ethics hedging
that just to say of course very very
strong language coming through out of
Korean authorities on the currency
markets what obviously against the
backdrop of a very weak dollar this year
does the weak dollar continue next year
and how what does that how does it
activate uh regulators that might be
maybe too worried over uh a twoe dollar
for example or the opposite in the case
I guess of of of of the Koreans
>> exactly and you can point to Japan as
well. We had comments this week from the
finance minister, I believe, uh
reminding the market about the ability
for official intervention. Listen, I
think because of the Federal Reserve um
cuts that are forecast in the year
ahead, we're going to see a pretty uh
pretty sort of persistent weakness um
you know, outlook for the dollar. uh and
again relative to some of those Asian uh
Asian central banks, Australia, New
Zealand, Japan that are now shifting or
already in a tightening um cycle uh that
will support their currencies. I think
the um yeah the dollar weakness trade
should should endure until we start to
see um you know a shift in in US
inflation or jobs.
>> Richard, fantastic. Thank you, sir.
Richard Henderson there in odds for us
our cross assets reporter uh just very
briefly and you know for many people
sorry may be the hardest word not for us
we're sorry we made a mistake uh the
graphic that we showed you earlier on
that showed uh silver was up 400% that
did look kind of uh sketchy though to
begin with there's the correct graphic
for you year to date that's what we're
doing on silver gold spot and also
copper but you know what just to say
it's been a good year still right okay
plhead this is the [music] China
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. Let's talk about strategic invest.
Let's talk about ports, right? So,
China's invested what? Billions uh
billions and billions of dollars really
uh in building ports right around the
globe here, giving Beijing a strategic
advantage given the trade and tensions
conversation. Uh it's sparking security
concerns as well around the world and
our team at Bloomberg Originals in fact
has taken a closer look at this trend.
>> Every year China imports about 66,000
metric tons of these. That's the weight
of about 6 and 12 Parisian landmarks or
if you like 440 blue whales. [music]
And most of these avocados come all the
way from Peru. This journey used to take
over a month. Now it's a straight shot,
cutting it by 10 days. Why? One word,
megaport.
And it's paid for [music] by China.
The Chinese President Xi Jinping begins
a week-long South America tour, opening
a China funded mega port in Peru. This
is a huge investment not only for Peru
but in Latin America and it is expected
to triple agricultural exports of
[music] Peru.
>> Over the last 20 years, China has built
up a network of about a 100 ports on
every continent except Antarctica
clustered around key maritime choke
points which are crucial to global
[music] trade.
>> This gives China a strategic advantage
as global trade tensions rise.
But it's also sparking [music] concerns.
>> Even though these ports by and large are
commercial ports, some of them do
actually [music] have the capacity to
host naval vessels.
>> So why did China build a global ports
empire? And should Washington be worried
about it?
[music]
Without ports, the global economy pretty
much grinds to a halt. Roughly about 80%
of global trade is conducted via ships
and ports are crucial to that.
>> Six of the 10 busiest ports in the world
are located in China and 95% of the
nation's trade is done by sea.
>> China has made itself rich by being able
to find markets overseas for its
manufactured goods and being able to
ship raw materials to China to be
processed. So making sure that it has
access to a network of global ports is a
key part of that.
>> And it's [music] not only ports. China
is also the world's biggest maker of
container ships. Making these
generational investments to dominate
global trade infrastructure is a central
pillar of the belt and road initiative.
Over the years, it has become President
Xiinping's signature global initiative
with the [music] goal to strengthen or
improve global connectivity through
building up infrastructure projects.
This has meant modernizing the ancient
Silk Road with highways and rail while
securing maritime pathways in and out of
China. [music] Since the launch of the
belt and road initiative, Chinese
entities investment in overseas ports
have accelerated both in terms of scale
and numbers. This map shows Chinese
entities [music] have invested in $129
port projects totaling over $60 billion
from Tanzania and Australia [music] to
Nigeria and Cambodia.
This dwarfs investments made by any
other country. There is no US government
initiative that tries to finance or
build port projects overseas.
>> China has an entire ecosystem of
companies from cement firms, iron steel
firms that specialize in building out
ports. Those are not industries where
the US has been focused in recent years.
>> But the level of Chinese ownership over
its ports varies. China's global pot
network is made up of a series of
different forms of ownership by Chinese
state-run companies and also Chinese
private companies.
>> In most cases, they team up with
multinational or local companies to
build and run the ports. Even though the
land is still owned by local
governments,
17 of the ports China has invested in
have majority Chinese ownership, which
could offer Beijing more leverage at
those sites, [music]
such as prioritizing container ships
from a certain country or denying the
docking of ships from other countries.
[music] But China has little reason to
disrupt global trade, which takes us
back to the first mega port we mentioned
at Chiankai in Peru. 60% is owned by
China's state-run shipping company,
Costco, and 40% by an entity controlled
by an Argentine investor.
Chankai is located around 40 mi north of
Lima. And in its final [music] phase,
the main area of the port is expected to
be around 700 acres, which is about 80%
the size of Central [music] Park. So the
port itself is huge. This port is part
of China's large infrastructure push in
Latin America. [music]
Currently, three out of four of the
biggest economies of South America trade
more with China [music] than the US. In
fact, a third of all the containers
exported by Peru are sent [music] to
China, carrying not only these
favorites, but other agricultural
products and minerals as well.
So, this makes Peru a crucial gateway
into China for Brazil, Chile, and other
countries.
The initial investment was of $1.3
billion. What if there is more demand?
Costco has said that it could invest
$3.5 billion total for an expansion of
the port.
>> Chiankai is a deep water port, which
means that shipments could take place
directly from Chiang Kai to major
Chinese ports. So that would enable
journeys to be cut down, costs to be
reduced, trade to be increased between
South America and China.
US officials have criticized this port,
telling Peruvian authorities that they
should not have allowed a Chinese firm
to create such a [music] big investment
in the region. But Peruvian officials
have countered, saying that the US
hasn't been willing to make such a big
investment in Peru.
>> As we know by now, this is not just a
story about overseas investment. It's
also about national security. A number
of Trump officials have even suggested
that the port could be dual use, meaning
that at some stage it could be used
[music] not just for economic activity,
but for military activity, too. That's
something that Peruvian officials
strongly [music] deny and that China
denies, too.
>> But these concerns are not unfounded. US
intelligence says China's first overseas
military base in the tiny African
country of Djibouti is likely to be
followed by several more. in Djibouti.
What began as a commercial port
eventually turned into [music] China's
first full-fledged overseas military
base.
Remember this map? Of the 17 ports with
Chinese majority ownership, 14 have
potential for both commercial [music]
and military use. Meaning it can service
commercial ships, LG tankers, oil
tankers and it might also has the
physical capacity to host fueling ships,
logistic ships for military purposes or
a military battleship.
>> China only has one overseas naval base
so far [music] as compared to the
several that the US has dotted around
the world. In [music] fact, the US also
has a naval base in Djibouti along with
at least 127 other overseas military
bases. Chinese officials strongly deny
that the ports are for military use. But
still,
>> many countries around the world are
concerned that these [music] Chinese
port operators could in turn become
listening post to what the economies
that are surrounding these ports [music]
are doing.
But the more immediate concern is that
China could leverage these ports in a
trade war.
>> China is operating the Panama Canal, and
we didn't give it to China. We gave it
to Panama, and we're taking it back.
[applause]
>> For the US, the Panama Canal is really a
crucial economic lifeline. something
like 5% of global trade travels through
[music] the canal and 40% of US
container traffic flows through it.
Without that ability to easily pass
between the Atlantic and the Pacific
oceans through that corridor, US trade
would be very much impacted.
>> Two of the ports on [music] either side
of the canal are owned by Hong Kong
based conglomerate SK Hutchinson.
>> To all intents and purposes, Beijing
doesn't have direct control over
Hutchinson. But the very fact that the
key executives at these companies may
have direct relationship with the
Chinese Communist Party that really
makes a lot of Western governments
uncomfortable.
A foreign [music] power today possesses
through their companies which we know
are not independent the ability to turn
the canal into a choke point and that is
a [music] direct threat to the national
interest and security of the United
States.
China has said that it has always
respected Panama's sovereignty over the
canal and that it firmly opposes
economic coercion and bullying
practices. Yet, it has also pushed back
against a deal that would give control
of CK Hutchinson's Panama ports to
American asset manager Black Rockck,
calling the deal a betrayal of national
interests.
The European Union has introduced
investment screening regulations which
make it much more difficult for China to
buy up critical infrastructure including
ports across the continent.
>> A tit fortat over docking fees has also
been rippling through the shipping
industry.
Washington has also suggested that all
this Chinese money comes with heavy
strings attached.
But if you talk to officials in Nigeria,
Peru, beyond, there's a feeling that
look, we need this infrastructure. It's
important for our economic modernization
plans, and China is the only game in
town offering it.
>> Ultimately, we're going to see a
reshaping of global trade flows because
maritime trade [music] has become more
and more political.
enjoy
that. Yeah, fantastic stuff and work of
course out of our team at Bloomberg uh
originals. Uh subscribers by the way can
watch that specific one and others of
course on the terminal. Uh it's also on
the website on bloomberg uh.com. China
has uh certainly emerged as really one
of the key markets this year that's on
ports. do of course catch and read up on
Shulie's column uh today fantastic one
repeat after me never ever underestimate
China of course in terms of what
happened this year trade war AI
developments everything in between the
latest article and focuses on why one
should not
undertake that exercise you can read
about that on terminal as well [music]
also on bloomberg.com
Right, welcome back. Chips in focus. Um,
well, a couple of things cuz obviously
one is the US has
at least for now pushed back the
prospect of duties on that following of
course [music] the review. Second one
comes down to what the securities news
reported late last night uh and also
SMIC in fact raising [music]
some prices some products by 10%. More
on those stories coming through [music]
in the next hour of the China show.
[music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show half an hour into
the was the night before Christmas
[music] as they say and certainly
volumes are
screaming that fact out when you look at
turnover turning [music] down. Volumes
at this point in time of the day uh were
about 48% lighter than uh than the
month's average. Uh so yeah, price
swings obviously are going to be
exacerbated but that's just to say of
course markets have effectively checked
out for for the year and it's been a
really really really good year uh to be
long major assets like stocks, precious
metals. We get into all of that of
course in the next hour of the China
show and of course Belle is standing by
in Sydney for us to help us drive the
ship in the next hour. Bell [laughter]
>> drive the ship for the last show before
Christmas and definitely here
>> in Australia. People have well and truly
clocked off by now. But we are going to
be bringing you all of the market moves
over the coming hour and just starting
us off in the session today. I mean it's
it's pretty strong and and we have
really eventually got that Santa Claus
rally it seems just given what we had on
Wall Street. It's translated eventually
across to the Asian benchmarks in the
session with the exception actually of
the ASX 200 standing out to the downside
this morning. But it is that continued
theme you you see around tech in
particular. Uh metals and Vietnamese
stocks. We're also tracking those. Let's
actually get to Vietnamese stocks first
because as you were saying Dave, I saw
your email you sent earlier. This is by
far the best performing benchmark
globally over the past few weeks. You're
seeing gains are around 7% but even in
the session today very strong moves and
this is really perhaps with a little bit
more political clarity coming to the
four here because we may be soon set to
get a new picture or a clearer picture
of the new top leaders for the country
as well. uh metals as I mentioned
because very strong moves across the
board in in the likes of copper,
palladium or platinum rather silver,
gold I mean you you're seeing platinum
record highs, silver above $70 an ounce
uh 4500 on gold spot as well. Copper
above 1,200,000 a ton for the first time
ever. Very strong moves really with
these expectations around Fed easing
into next year. There are some tariff
risks as well that are coming to the
four particularly uh for those copper
prices. but also taking a look in the
currency space because again as you said
Dave you get that thinner trading it it
leaves you open maybe to some more
stronger moves and and the Korean one is
is maybe reflecting a bit of that today
but it is strengthening and that's after
authorities said excessive weakness in
the currency is not desirable so some
strong determination to act I mean we
didn't we just got that early this week
as well with from the finance minister
in Japan but but certainly you have
those government officials in North Asia
prepared to step in
>> absolutely in fact Mark Cranfield is
standing by for us to help us understand
the context here um in terms of what's
happening broadly of course risk assets
and we talked about the FX markets and
the complications suddenly of us looking
elsewhere Mark we were talking about we
were looking elsewhere for intervention
Japan is a good example uh we were
talking about seven uh on the Chinese
currency and then the Koreans came out
and said hey look at us how do we need
to be looking at this risk
Well, the the Korean timing is very uh
clever indeed because they were
obviously were waiting to some extent
for for a change in the Japanese
currency. The two are usually pretty
closely linked together. So, since we've
already had uh Katyama, the finance
minister, helping the the yen to get a
little bit stronger, the Korean
authorities are following up. and their
their timing is is also good because if
you look at the the performance of the
dollar against the Korean one over the
past year, you'll see that when it gets
close to the 1480 kind of area which was
approaching today, that's a pretty
important pivot area. And if they had
have allowed it just to to drift even be
beyond that, by the time we come back in
January, we could have a very weak
currency indeed and it may be beyond
their their control to do anything about
it. So very important that they step in
when they did. And if you look at the
measures that they've announced today
that the key one is the one that's aimed
at individual investors. There's been
there's been talk for for quite a while
that Koreans have been sending a lot of
money to the US to buy tech stocks in
America. It seems that the individuals
in Korea, they love American big cap
tech names. People like Tesla, Nvidia,
all those kind of players. And there is
so much money stored up in the US dollar
via the equity market. The Korean
authorities are now encouraged them to
bring it back to Korea and do so at
advantageous levels as well. So clearly
this very much aimed at getting money
back into Korea to support the Korean
currency. So very good timing from their
point of view. So the chances of them
drawing a line under the weakness in the
currency is pretty good as they go into
year end and they should be able to
start the new year on a much better
footing than they would have done if
they just allowed it to drift around.
>> Yeah. Let's talk about I guess some
other implications of of that weaker
dollar story as well because you've got
gold that's above 4500 an ounce uh for
the first time. What does that tell you
and what's the direction for metals
going into next year? because a lot of
these moves I mean again at record
levels.
>> Yeah. I mean that's a that's a
double-edged thing there. So general US
dollar weakness usually is good for
precious metals especially gold but
you're seeing it branch out way beyond
it's going into as you say into silver
platinum and other places as well. So on
the one side is is a dollar story but on
the other side clearly geopolitics is
playing a pretty big role as well. the
fact that the United States and
Venezuela, the situation there is pretty
tense could even deteriorate further.
People are concerned about that and then
you still got a lot of unresolved issues
in other parts of the world. There seems
to be no sign that Russia and Ukraine
are going to have a truce there either.
So there's plenty of reasons when you
look across the world. If people want to
be nervous, if they want to be
defensive, then obviously going into
gold and other places is pretty good.
And then you get the double whammy
effect because the dollar is falling as
well. And in the background, the
Treasury curve is pretty stable. And one
of the few things that can derail the
gold rally would be if suddenly we get a
big jump in Treasury yields. That
doesn't seem to be happening right now.
People still think the Federal Reserve
is going to lower interest rates again
next year. So all the conditions are
very much in favor of gold and silver
staying on a pretty good track for the
time being.
Mark, I'm just taking a look at crypto
prices and Bitcoin in in particular.
It's actually pretty incredible given
all the optimism we had around crypto
going into 2025 and the expectations of
where it would end the year. It's
actually managed to to go lower by
around 8%. What does that mean?
>> I think if you if you've been following
what we're saying on Markets Live for
the past few months, crypto is a side
story. I think people there's enough
happening in in major currencies in
equities in global fixed income markets.
There's enough asset classes which are
looking very very interesting. Crypto is
a sideeshow. People are just moving
their money away from it. It's
increasingly becoming less relevant to
what happens in the other uh markets.
It's no longer really a cross asset
story. It's out there on its own. There
are people that like crypto. They want
to be involved.
the read across for other major assets
is becoming less and less all the time.
So in with that background you can have
crypto continuing to slide lower and
frankly bond traders FX traders they
don't really care.
>> Really great love that Mark that was our
MI strategist there Mark Crown Cranfield
rather in Singapore and I think just
saying that there's a lot more
interesting asset classes to track leads
us perfectly into our guest. We've got
Masa Louu joining us, senior fixed
income strategist at State Street Global
Advisor. So, Massa, I mean, you just
heard Mark telling us straight there's a
there's just too many more captivating
stories in in markets to grab traders
and investors. What's most interesting
for you in the fixed income space?
>> I think fixed income space right is a
carry and income story. We have seen a
lot of you know um sell off fixed income
um especially in the DM market and EM
market too is a pretty interesting
[music] place to be for um next year
right and then um there's a lot of um
talks about diversifying away not
divestment again from US treasuries
right into different parts of the world
um we have you know um EM as a um
substitute we have seen um investors you
know moving into gold you have been um
investors trying to move into a bit of u
foreign flows into JGBs actually lately
so I think you know you going the next
year. Fixed income is still a carry and
um income story. And then with yield at
its elevated um entry level, I think
it's a good entry point for investors
with long-term um investment
perspective.
>> So we're setting up maybe for for a bit
softer dollar story as well. What does
that tell you about the preference for
for EM versus DM?
I think for EM market you know if you
look at the total return year to date um
EM local currency has returned around
18% this year 18 18%. And if you look at
um something like global act right
global aggregate is up around 8% which
is more carry and roll and the reason
why you know em local um debt has um
outperformed is because of dollar
weakness. We do think that you know um
with um a a slightly dovish fat into
next year um we we at state we actually
had a pretty out of consensus call of
four cuts um in 2024 and 2025 we had
three cuts. This is from our chief
economist Simona um based in Boston.
actually had a pretty good call this
year, right? despite um all the up and
ups and downs in the market where people
pull back their rate cards um forecast
we stuck to our guns and then into next
year we do forecast you know two to
three more cuts of from the fat you know
and that will probably embark a slightly
um weaker you know um US dollar maybe
five to 7% um weaker from here and and I
I think that in in the world you know
where you have um goldilocks um growth
and then a slightly weaker daughter and
that will actually benefit EM local
currency debt as a whole um especially
when you know a lot of these well global
investors remember they are very very
under they are still underweight you
know um under um emerging market um debt
so it's it's a asset class that is
underowned it pays um high real yield
and then you know there's more um room
to appreciate versus the US dollar
fantastic masa of course we'll have more
from Masahi Kolu in a moment there we've
largely had a look back at this year and
he's [music] somewhat teased of course
some of the areas of the market that he
likes going into next year. We're
underweight globally. [music] Of course,
EM as you can see across the fixed
income space, high yield has done better
than most. [music] Does that continue to
be the case in 2026? More on the
outlook. Coming up next, this is [music]
the China Show.
All right, welcome back. Uh, you're
watching the China. final full
broadcast, by the way, of the year. So,
it's Christmas and let me let me find a
way to crowbar my favorite Christmas
movie of all time and the conversations
around the Fed. Might more foc members
turn out to be doves. Actually, Masahiku
is still with us, senior fixed income
strategist at State Street Global
Advisors. Masa, thanks for sticking
around. I think you just mentioned in
the previous segment two, three rate
cuts uh for next year. almost everywhere
has has done well across the fixed
income space, high yield and everything
in between. When you look at consensus
right now and you look at what markets
most people are expecting,
uh what could go wrong?
>> I think next year, you know, um the
things that might go wrong is, you know,
we we do have like a air bubble burst,
right? Albeit this is not our best case
scenario. Um our theme for next year is
uncomfortably bullish. So we are still
long in risk assets and we do want to
have some hedge though right. So if you
have that you know small bubble burst or
call it a momentum crash rather than
burst and and then there's also talks
about yan carry trade being unwound u
which is I don't think we will see that
we might see a bit of you know um
periodically volatility but it's not a
system systemic or structural um risk
that that per se um so if we do have
that you know small turmo in the market
um that's when you know risk assets will
um do um worse right and then that's
when you know hedges will come in and
and um do well and that's Why we have
seen investors you know um locking into
um having trades like you know their
long risk like equities and then you
know if you are long um say for instance
the short end of the you know US curve
um is a pretty good play right if you
know risk um plunge and u fat will will
will cut right so that's a pretty good
place to be for fixed income has its
place um albeit not in the longer end of
the curve but the shorter end of the
curve um and other asset class you know
like fixed income that's have cheapened
up a lot like JGBs for instance right if
you do have a change in sentiment. I
think that you know rewind that reversal
will be pretty quick and also you know
you can sit on assets like hedges like
gold you know and and um convertible
bonds right we have seen actually
investors especially in the in the in
European investors um taking chips off a
bit on you know when it comes to US um
equities right growth equities and then
if you are in converts you do have that
upside in equities and also you do have
a downside protection um of of a bond
light downside protection right so
that's why we have seen you know um a
lot of investors trying to have have hes
on.
>> Well, fantastic advice. I think can I
just pick up on one of the points you
just made? It's a short end. So, I think
we've seen three straight years of uh
the US curve specifically steepening.
Do you see anything that upsets that
that that trend is are we going to get a
fourth year steepening?
I think you know we we will get a fourth
year steepening into next year you know
albeit you know a flattening is probably
more of 2027 story right even in Japan
it was the flattening is going to be a
late 2026 story right I think you know
globally you still have um a lot of
fiscal slippage and a lot of issuance in
the longer end um of the curve um you
know that it be US Germany including
Japan too right where I sit in right and
that's why we think that the curve um is
remains distorted albeit you know
there's a lot of um fixes or like tweaks
being done you know like you know you
can cut a bit of the issuance on the
back end and issue more you know in the
the bills right so cut coupons and issue
bills a lot of this you know technical
things can happen that could contain the
steepness of the curve but you know in
general sense I think a lot of people
are comfortable sitting on the shorter
end and then having to price a bit of
term premium in the um in the longer end
>> yeah I guess that's also a reflection
around the yield curve outlook just of
of a lot of the spending that's tied to
the big beautiful bill that's going to
kick in and and a lot of what we see in
terms of AI capex investments as well.
As an investor in in more of the
corporate space, is there any concern
about uh some of those those bonds that
are tied to AI specifically?
>> Sure. Like at st rate investment
management, you know, we are actually we
favor sovereign bonds over credit um for
the next year, right? The reason why is
because you know we have seen a lot of
issuance you know funding um aspiration
for hyperscalers um in AI capex and that
will I think will drive you know spreads
higher um into next year especially
focusing on the tech names that will
basically drive you know um spreads when
it comes to like for instance US IG
right is trading around 80 basis points
75 80 basis points at almost at all-time
tight right I think you know the general
um travel direction of travel is to get
spreads a bit wider maybe you know to
100 120 um when it comes to high yield.
Um it's trading at 275 currently. It's
also at all times tight. So you know
there's only that much you know room for
it to rally from here further to tighten
further. So we do think that you know if
we do have a bit of um more cockroaches
in the market per se and then more
issuance that will basically put on some
pressure in the credit market. So we are
favoring um so debt over um credit and
then we also favor um em local debt and
other you know hedges like gold and um
converts.
What about uh the the Japan debt market
as well? Because I can see in your notes
you're you're saying JGBs look pretty
cheap but sentiment does still remain
pretty cautious as well.
>> This is something very interesting right
talking to foreign investors. So me
sitting in Japan so I cover AP pack and
do travel to you know over in to the US
and Europe from time to time talking to
investors you know you have seen two
types of investors right the domestic
and foreign foreign investors they are
getting more attracted to JGB market
albeit a lot of the money um that flows
into Japan um from foreigners they are
still in the um fast money or you know
the ones that are active more tactical
type of type of investors we do sense
that you know there's more and more of
this the real real money right the like
the likes of the sovereign mobile funds
like your pension funds in the US right
that has never been looking at JGB for
the past 30 years because it's yielding
at 0% right now suddenly it's yielding
at par with Germany 30 years right and
then if you are foreign investors you
hedge it back to you know your foreign
your own currency home currency you
actually get the um hedging premium
which is around 100 to 100 to 200 basis
points you know of of of um
attractiveness and as a domestic
investor in Japan no one wants to catch
the falling knives right Japan banks are
sitting a lot on a lot of cash, 400
trillion yen of cash, right? Those are
the money that will be deployed in the
JB market. But speaking to investors in
Japan, we have started to see this pick
up of interest, but then it's going to
take a long drawn process. You know,
they have to wait until BOJ gets to
closer to terminal, which is we think
around 125 um by early 2027. So you know
JGB um that you get structural buying
from Japanese investors will be a 2026
um later half story. Um but you know
before we get there you know there's a
lot of entry points for um investors to
to to to get in um when when especially
when the market you know JGB market sell
off um under a headline of um increased
issuance of fiscal sleepage right for us
we think that you know Takai um if she
has a choice I don't think she wants to
be this trust right um I think she's
going to be um Maloney um like um you
know like how how Italy has outperformed
the market um going um coming into this
several um quarters
Yeah, that that seems to be an easy easy
pre choice of preference. Let's put it
that way. U can I just I mean perfect
perfect segway from the JGB market to
CGBs. U so obviously we've seen this
yield yields cross because of the sort
of Japan normalizing interest rates, the
lack of inflation in China on our
screens for our viewers. Uh, Masa, you
say 2026 will be will be the ver becomes
the verdict year on China's ability to
exit deflation. Two-part question. Do
you think they will exit deflation? And
if they do, what's the trade? And by the
way, third question, why 2026?
>> I think 2025, right, has seen, you know,
like look at the chart, right? It's
pretty um surprising, right? Like to me
is is is eyeball, right? Um it's very
symbolic. um Chinese yield is trading
underneath um Japan right JGB is
actually yielding more than 2GBs right
and with I think 2025 is the year that
you know investors have shifted away
from thinking the sigman of Asia is
actually Japan for the past 30 years
right no one's you know um Japanese
yield is next to nothing right now Japan
is actually a lot better there's a lot
of foreign um you know influence in both
JGBs and also NIK equities right and if
you talk to a lot of foreign investors
they are very actually pretty bullish
when it comes to Japan
um especially when it's have comes to
macro growth and stuff but it shifting
to China I think you know is actually
there's a lot of similarities a bit of
differences between Japan and China and
what sitting in China I'm looking at
sorry sitting in Japan looking at China
um I I could see China is mimicking
Japan back in the 1990s you know early
2000s right where Japan was in the um
early stage initial stage going into the
lost decades I think 2026 you know is a
verdict year because you know we have
seen China's inflation improving a bit
right but still, you know, is still in
the deflationary um um stage. Um and
there's a lot of targeted um spending,
targeted growth initiatives um done by
the government and 2026, you know, if
anything, we think it's going to be a
pivotal year for them if they could
actually um exit deflation and also um
induce a bit of growth in the into its
economy. But, you know, having putting
every piece um into the puzzle, we we do
think that, you know, 2026 is still a
pretty um it's going to take a pretty
long time for China right um to to exit
actually exit that whole deflationary
and also um growth undermining mindset
just because of how look at in Japan
right you have the demographics um aging
society and you have elevated debt and
then the third one is you know secular
decline in um potential growth um China
is doing better in Japan right because
they still have you know four to 5%
potential growth
But then you know is there there will be
a lot of pressure um external pressure
too on on China and we think that you
know um J CGBs is actually attractive
trade to be whenever there's a sell off
um taking you know um from the
experience of Japan um JGB market
>> Masa thank you sir have a good rest of
your week and holidays ahead Masa
Masahiku there senior fixed income
strategist at state street global
advisors in Tokyo writes, "Uh, we'll
leave you with a look at markets and
then we'll see you on the [music] other
side of this break.
[music]
Welcome back." And some of the corporate
stories that we're tracking this
morning, we're watching [music] CNO
shares. That's after it announced a
major oil field discovery in the Bohigh
Sea. Senuk says the [music] Chin Huang
Dao 29-6
holds 100 million tons of [music] oil
with a discovery well producing 2,500
barrels of [music] crude a day. China's
Comarmac is set to miss its annual
delivery target for a C919 single aisle
jet by almost 50%. [music]
Data from serium and planespotter.net
Net suggests Comarmac ship just 13 of
its flagship plane this year, well short
[music] of the target of 25. Playmakers
expected to have received the C919 this
year, including Air China and China
Eastn.
>> All right, let's have a look at these
markets. the chips in focus. SMIC had
the news yesterday out of the Securities
Times that [music] dovtales really into
the well well first the jump in the
shares clearly uh and some prices
[music] on some products by 10% make
that into your model. Swahong semi is
also on the up here [music] 1.2%.
Taiwanese insurers also in focus today
on the back of some changes in I guess
FX and [music] that it should be leading
to some gains not all but we are coming
off highs if not completely reversing in
some cases on some changes [music] in
accounting rules right uh we'll take a
short break and have a look at the
Japanese close the morning close in a
moment this [music] is Bloomberg
>> [music]
>> It's 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo this morning.
Japanese markets just about [music] to
go onto their lunch break. We're not
really seeing too much trading activity
and we're seeing holiday thin trading
across the board. No surprises why. Of
course, it is Christmas Eve, but uh
still we are just seeing stocks inching
marginally higher and that's after we
had some pretty strong GDP figures out
in the US overnight that uh set us up
nicely and and played in again to that
Wall Street session. uh Asia markets as
well. Let's take a look at what's
happening across the board today. As we
said, it's it's very light in terms of
of news stories, but still it's just
some incremental moves here to the
upside. You still seeing that continued
outperformance of tech there. And of
course, the commodities rally is the
other big story that we're tracking
here, Dave.
>> Yeah, it really is. In fact, we're going
to get into that in a moment. there
would really, you know, as as as as
recently as a few weeks back, I thought
we were kind of done with the rally and
then the last week happened and you
know, here we are 45 on gold, 4,500,
silver, 72, platinum, copper, 12,000.
Uh, equity markets, just very quickly,
of course, in case you want to take if
you're keeping tabs, best year since
these years on your screens. Clearly,
the Cosby piece had a standout year. uh
I think it's the best performing major
benchmark globally.
Um and yeah, clearly the best on price
this this this this century in fact on
the rethinking of its role specifically
not so much as a tech play that's been
that's been a consistent theme for for
many years flip the page but as a really
vital cog to the AI supply chain gold
there we go uh it's been you know the
fact that you have an underperformer the
fact that gold has seen 50 record highs
and it's still one of the
underperformers relative to others like
silver. Just tells you how good how good
things have have really been. Bel.
>> Yeah. And let's get more on that gold
story and commodities generally bring in
our Bloomberg Metals and Mining reporter
Martin Richie in Shanghai. So Martin,
was this something you had thought would
be the case? We'd see $4,500 an ounce by
the by the end of the year and and how
does that set us up into next year when
you still got more bullish calls saying
4,800 4,900 is even possible?
Uh yeah, it's been a pretty spectacular
year for for gold and uh since you asked
if I'd ever thought about that. One of
my colleagues was uh mentioning this
morning that when he covered gold uh you
know, you can never imagine prices at
this level even two years ago. Um but
here we are. uh and I think this uh
December rally that you've seen uh in
gold and in the precious metals is
really a kind of continuation of the
same themes we've seen throughout this
year. It's about uh it's about the
debasement trade, you know, growing sort
of uh mistrust in traditional assets,
the sovereign bonds and currencies. It's
about the weaker dollar. It's about
central banks buying gold because of
those things. Uh, and it's about a
little bit more of private investor
money coming into gold. But you have all
that and then you have kind of low
liquidity in the in the the end ofear
season um which means that these kind of
momentum trades can um can take hold uh
and spread to other metals. We've
obviously seen silver, platinum,
palladium, all these precious metals
that are very small markets and can make
very big moves. Uh we've seen those
start to uh make pretty uh spectacular
moves in fact uh in the last few days.
>> Yeah. And you know when they use a
spectacular could sometimes be an
understatement. Just tells you how good
things have been. Martin the let's talk
about copper. Obviously the we all know
about the supply issues there. the big
the three big copper biggest copper
mines in the world. Is there well when
they look at the economic forecast for
next year then this is the economic
overlay. Uh people seem to have a mixed
view on whether the global economy will
do better next year compared to this
year and I wonder whether there is an
economic consideration when you look at
Dr. Copper doing what it's doing to the
upside.
Um, I would I would actually take this
opportunity to talk a little bit about
the about the downside uh for for for
copper. You know, we're we're seeing
this we're seeing this rally to 12,000
uh well past 12,000 already. Um we're
seeing this happening even as demand for
copper is is quite weak. Uh especially
here in in China, we've seen over the
past two months a really quite uh marked
slump in in demand. um and supply driven
rallies, especially when they're driven
by a kind of timelmited thing like the
prospect of US import tariffs, uh are
maybe not that reliable. Um and there's
already a lot of people saying, look,
12,000 is just too high for copper. It's
it's higher than it where it should be
relative to demand. If we look globally
um at supply, you know, the market is
not that tight, it's it's only because
there's a lot of stuff going to the US
to frontr run tariffs that you're
getting this sort of uh slightly
distorted sense of where prices are. So,
um those are all reasons to be kind of a
little bit more uh cautious, I guess,
about about next year with copper at
these uh already very high levels.
>> Martin, thank you. Martin Richie in in
Shanghai for us, our metals and mining
reporter there. Right. Uh just ahead
here, we're having so when we talk about
a closer look, really a close and deeper
and comprehensive look at CL
specifically. Uh so the company's taken
[music] on new heights this year. It's
setting its sights then on further
expansion overseas, but there's some
speed bumps, some bottlenecks ahead,
including politicians and Donald Trump
in the way. Details on that story just
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
You're watching the China show and
taking a look at some stocks that are
moving very strongly to the upside
today. Uh these are smart driving stocks
listed in on the mainland. But but the
story here and the reporting we're
actually getting from Shinar is that the
that that Beijing city has issued the
first batch of license plates for L3
autonomous vehicle operating on
expressways. Now to put it in
perspective, L3 technology, it's when
the the the technology of the vehicle
becomes significantly more autonomous.
So at this point maybe you can have a
car that can really perform all driving
tasks. It's a point maybe where humans
can start to recline a little bit uh in
their seats and and focus on other
tasks. That's what the technology is
capable of a step below what you see
robo taxis operating at today which is
L4 but definitely above L2 that we we
see in terms of you basic adaptive uh
cruise control lane centering other
sorts of technologies as well. Dave,
>> you know, Bel, when you mentioned L2,
and I think a lot of people will will uh
appreciate this jump in my in my head.
L2, L3, L4 just makes me think about my
discs in in in my lower back, right? So,
L4, L5. [laughter] A lot of people have
herniations. And I'll just borrow, of
course, people people like me, we do
need, of course, reclining seats when
you do have bad backs, right? because it
alleviates some of the pressure on your
L4, L5, sometimes even S1. Okay. Anyway,
let's Okay, let me How did I get myself
into this corner? Uh, let me pull myself
out of this hole and then pivot back,
get back on the road, talk about CL, the
world's biggest EV maker. We have a
fantastic big take today on this. So,
get this. The company has powered one in
three cars sold this year. That's
according to data from South
Korean-based NSE Research. But as growth
slows domestically, the company is now
looking abroad for expansion. Let's
bring in our transport reporter here,
Linda Lou, to talk us through today's
big take. Let's talk about, pun
intended, the road ahead and the road
overseas here for the company before we
talk about the challenges.
>> Yeah, so CHL is making a really big push
into Europe. uh has already built two
factories uh one in Germany, one in
Hungary where it's uh producing
batteries to supply to its clients like
Volkswagen, uh BMW and Mercedes uh on
the continent. It's building a third
factory uh in partnership with
Stellantis in Spain. So, it's really
ramping up um presence in Europe.
>> What's in the way?
>> In the way is a uneven EV demand. Uh
you're seeing that in China. Uh you're
also seeing a little bit of that in
Europe. We just saw the EU essentially
kind of scale back their commitments to
phasing out
>> sales of uh petrol and uh diesel cars by
uh in the near future. So um that step
back uh combined with some of European
countries like Germany and France
scaling back uh incentives to support EV
purchases could in the long run uh kind
of slow down this demand for EVs. But I
think CL is banking that the transition
towards EVs will might be uneven but
it's not going away. So is really uh
putting its um production capacity on
the line there.
>> What can it do in terms of of containing
costs as it looks to expand then if it
really doesn't have any other choice but
continue to look to to Europe really?
>> Yes, that's right. Uh Europe is a really
important uh market for car sales as
well as EVs. uh outside of China uh
you're probably seeing uh the biggest
source of demand from the European
continent and another big factor is the
higher prices that uh EV makers can
command in Europe. So that's really
going to help boost the margins of these
manufacturers especially considering at
home there's a price war that's being
waged for the Chinese companies. So CL
is also hoping to capitalize on some of
those higher margins in Europe. But on
the flip side, uh its factories that's
operating in Germany and maybe possibly
Hungary is actually at a lower
efficiency and probably at a higher cost
compared to its factories at home in
China. So it's got a kind of a balancing
act that it needs to address as it uh
develops in the European market.
not so much a focus I guess for this
piece but just generally can you help us
understand as well for next year for CL
the the importance of of energy storage
systems as well to to the business given
you've got maybe some weaker or or more
mature demand already for for the EV
battery side.
Yes, energy storage systems uh is
actually a market that a lot of people
are banking on for fast growth
especially now as uh the demand for AI
and AI data centers are surging. So
having these storage systems I think at
these data centers will really help
manage uh the energy demands uh that
these operations will have. So, CL has
already made a lot of uh groundwork and
foundations for producing energy storage
uh storage systems not only in China but
in the US. It's actually very
interesting. they are pivoting um
together with Ford uh to go into this
energy storage energy storage systems
market uh with Ford hoping to leverage
the licensing deal it has with CL to
start providing this type of products
that's actually an area that you have EV
makers like Tesla already very strong in
uh in the space so it'll be really
interesting to see how CL can kind of
gain a little bit of access into the US
market through partnerships like this.
>> Linda, great reporting. That was
Bloomberg's Linda Lou there in Hong Kong
talking about today's big take, which is
China's battery giant needing new
markets after dominating at home. And on
that point and continuing CL, we
actually spoke to them earlier this
year. And the company told us that it's
making overseas expansions its top
priority in line with what Linda was
saying, but amid intense domestic
competition. its chief manufacturing
officer spoke with Steven Angel, our
chief North Asia correspondent at the
World Economic Forum in Tanzin early
this year.
>> Irrational competition I will call uh is
everyone the industrywide and the
government knew this is a problem. This
is unhealthy. This will destroy the
industry. So there is a lot of uh
sentiment to come up with a regulation
and policy to prohibit this kind of
price wall
>> and uh as a result that also force
everybody to dig in. Can you further
improve your internal efficiency and so
maintain reasonable uh business margin
to survive to continue uh innovate. So
as for that part I expect that will uh
>> how are you doing that? How are you
improving your efficiencies?
>> We are trying to do everything improve
the production utilization.
>> How is AI employed? AI has been used
actually uh CAT has been using embracing
the AI revolution maybe seven eight
years ago. At that time it already
started from simple uh repetitive task
and manual work. They try to use AI to
capture to do more efficient work and
now we not only using AI to screen
material because different material
different chemistry and also different
design and also during the stage of
manufacturing and also after the sales.
So AI has been utilized to uh improve
and make sure the process is stable is
under control. over the next 5 to 10
years, what would your ideal
um
next generation super battery factory
look like? Well uh I would say in the
next five years ideally let's take on
all the uh treat barrier all the
consideration ideally should be green
number one because we want to save our
planet the factory we actually already
do extensive improvement to reduce our
energy consumption reduce any of the
emission and re recirculate the any of
the waste material will be recirculate
into production. That is the number one.
Number two, it should be uh uh uh smart
so that any human labor intensive uh
dangerous task should be taken care by
machines by robot uh by computers. So
that's what we are saying also should be
uh reconfigurable because when you put
the production this capital intensive
facility
>> when you put the production line you
don't want to see oh after a year the
product the end product our consu our
customers vehicle don't sell well you
say we would like switch that to a
different vehicle
>> right
>> can you quickly flexibly adjust adapt to
the new product so that's our effort we
try to make it as a user friendly as
possible.
>> How do you avoid the pitfalls of
overcapacity uh that has affected the
solar industry right now? Uh and a lot
of people in the industry are are
fearing that maybe there's going to be a
battery over capacity in the coming
years. How do you feel about that?
>> Well, we don't look at that. We believe
when the global community going to green
sustainable uh uh uh world and there's a
research the demand is drastically
increasing. The key is a high quality
battery.
Of course, you can if you don't put a
high standard, you can put a cheap
battery that capacity maybe is
plentiful. But the consumer and our uh
basically workass OEMs in car industry,
in energy company, they demand a high
quality safe and uh a long life battery.
For that, it's there's a shortage.
Otherwise, we will not go to many parts
of the world to make those high quality
batteries.
>> Would you say going overseas now because
of the high
>> demand
>> demand? Well, that there there's
obviously I I wouldn't say the market is
saturated in China yet, but there's a
price war obviously, which is brutal.
Would you say though that your number
one priority is kind of figuring out the
international expansion?
>> That's right.
>> The best um I guess algorithm
>> for making it work. M is that your
number one priority?
>> Yes.
>> And that was N Jun there, the chief
manufacturing officer at the company
with well exclusively uh with our
colleague Steven Angel. Uh that
conversation was back a few months back.
Now safety has really been and staying
largely on theme here. It really has
been a major concern uh for the EV
industry this year following a fatal
crash of a Xiaomi car that then led to a
nationwide uproar. Steve also had a look
u at the story. He took a test track uh
took to a test track in Shanghai where
CL is looking to make charging faster
and also safer.
CL likes to think of itself as doing
sort of the dirty work of building
electric vehicles. Not only where the
rubber meets the road, [music] but where
the charge is put into the chassis.
CL's so-called skateboards are a modular
cell to chassis product that integrate
the battery cells under the floorboards
with the chassis, engine, drivetrain,
and other modules. CL's many car brand
customers then build out their own
flashy bodies on top. And this stripped
down and top off skateboard skeleton is
not just for show. It rips on the test
track. Our test drive took place just as
CL touted it can now offer 520 km or 323
mi of range from an industry best just 5
minutes of charging time. Total game
changer because with that technology and
then the infrastructure that follows
behind it, range anxiety should be a
thing of the past.
>> CL has more than onethird of the world's
EV battery manufacturing capacity. They
can scale it. Analysts say this will be
the year in China when EVs finally out
sell internal combustion engine
passenger cars for the first time. But
tragedy also has recently accompanied
that rapid growth. In late March, a
Xiaomi SU7 traveling at high speed on an
expressway with self-driving reportedly
switched on plowed into a concrete wall
and caught fire, killing three people.
The Xiaomi accident really put the focus
on EV safety, not only with autonomous
driving, but with battery safety. This
is the CL first generation of the
skateboard chassis. Underneath are the
batteries.
The next generation [music] called the
Bedrock is promising at least 120 km an
hour frontal impact will not [music]
cause a fire or explosion. also known as
thermal runaway. [music]
>> Greater oversight, safety will become a
priority for a lot of these companies.
They're all talking about it here. I
think the problem with the way the uh
self-driving technology features have
been sold is it's caused people to think
that they could be less attentive to the
way the car is actually performing. You
still need to monitor the car.
>> Putting the onus on battery makers, too,
to make sure such a high impact thermal
event won't lead [music] to a fire. For
one, it's championing advancements in
less combustible sodium ion batteries,
which CL says are ready for
commercialization.
>> While this reporter is ready for perhaps
just one more spin around the track.
Steven Engel, Bloomberg News, China.
And we're going to continue the
discussion rather on Chinese EV sector
in the next hour. will have EV battery
analyst Yuan May from Great Wall
Securities [music] and also the
Automobility founder and CEO Bill Russo
who you just saw in that tape. But Bill
Russo joining us as well. You can catch
that interview at the times on your
screen. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Right, welcome back. Just before we wrap
up the show today, uh just a glance at
markets in Vietnam. Some weakness today.
We were up as much as 1% if not more in
the opening minutes have since clearly
paired back. It's still one of the best
performers. In fact, I'll say it's the
best performing uh index over the past 5
days on political clarity uh is what
we're pointing to at this point in time.
Uh right, uh on the up still, we're
looking at gold, of course, that's
really been a big story. Gold stocks
specifically when you look at Indonesia,
there we go on your screen. and some of
the big mining related names uh as gold
continues to hit new highs. Uh and just
before we wrap up a quick glance at the
hanging index and also some benchmarks
to reminder that we are a day to
Christmas and we have some early
closures of these markets in Hong Kong,
Singapore, Australia and also in New
Zealand which is already shut. So
truncated sessions there and since this
is our final full broadcast of the year,
let [music] me just take the opportunity
to wish you all well, a happy holiday.
Thank you for joining us not just today
but for [music] this year so far. We
will see you all in full uh in the new
year. For the economy, spend a bit of
money for your future self. Maybe don't
spend everything, but of [music] course,
spend a lot of time if you can with your
loved ones. From us here at the China
Show, we wish you all well. We'll see
[music] you all in the new year. Thank
you for joining us. This is the China
Show.